# What is "Humans of TIKS"?

Humans of TIKS is a series of videos of people in the TIKS Ultimate Club
talking about their life and their journey with Ultimate and other things that
light them up!  You can find the first season of videos
[here](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLo98-81j1ocKx7DsxOYNavJx9vmcL0oWx)

# Why are you doing this?

“After nourishment, shelter and companionship, stories are the thing we need
most in the world.”  ― Philip Pullman

Humans of TIKS is a way for us to capture and share stories of the humans of
TIKS with the world, including the past and future players of the team!

It is a hope to capture the culture of the team, an attempt to leave a trail of
legacy for the team...

It could also be seen as plain social media marketing content, if you like.

# Who is doing this?

Just a bunch of us who wanted to do something interesting during the first wave
of COVID-19, started this. KP, Saqqu and Punch have usually been doing the
chats, and Raja has been helping with the posters.

But, you could easily be on the team and help us have these conversations with
people! Let us know if you'd be interested. These conversations are fun to
have, and a great way to know your teammates.

# How do you go about it?

A couple of us would have a free-wheeling free-wheeling conversation with you,
where you share everything that matters to you! Don't feel obliged to stay on
topic or answer questions succintly.

The idea is to know you as a person, and to get to know your journey with
Ultimate, Sports and Fitness.

We can either have the conversation remotely, or in person.

# What kind of a setup do I need for doing this remotely?

We want to make the setup as simple as possible so that it doesn't put off
anyone from signing up for a chat.

- Use your phone to record your video, and join the video call on a different
  device.

- Make sure you have enough space on your phone to be able to record for half
  an hour to an hour. You'll need about 3-4GB of space if you are recording at
  1920x1080. We can also record via Zoom, if that is not possible for you.

- Record the video in landscape mode.

- Put your phone in airplane more or in DND mode for the next hour or so.

- Make sure there is adequate lighting where you are sitting.

- Make sure you are sitting so that you appear in roughly the same portion of
  the screen , for most part of the video. This would make it easier to
  crop/edit for Instagram.

- Try doing a sample recording of the video. (Use the template question for
  this)

- Use headphones for talking over video chat. Hearing sounds of pings on your
  computer, or other people typing, makes the audio quality poor.

- Ensure that your headphones are charged if they are bluetooth headphones.

# What would go in the final video from the conversation?

We'll share an edited version of the conversation with you for your approval
before publishing it. Only things you are comfortable sharing with the "world"
will be included.

We'd also include (as overlays) a handful of pictures related to the topics of
the conversation. We'll ask you for pictures on specific themes, once we do a
first edit of the conversation and have a fair sense of what will or won't make
it into the final edit.

# Is there any thing to keep in mind while having this chat?

- Just be yourself, and treat this as a casual conversation with friends. Be as
  genuine as you can be.

- Avoid using swear words. We'd like to be able to post the video for Ultimate
  players in all age groups.

- Use gender-neutral language/pronouns wherever you can. Use they/them or
  she/her instead of saying he/him/his. Person-D not Man-D. etc.

# Is there any kind of preparation I'd need to do for this?

- Block off about an hour and a half or so, on your calendar.

- Make sure you are well-fed and in the mood to have a fun conversation!

- It would help to have a bottle of water handy. :)

# Why me?

“But how could you live and have no story to tell?” ― Fyodor Dostoevsky, White
Nights
